# Cell-Graph_Signature: GNN-based cancer prognosis prediction using image-derived Cell-Graphs
## Git repo for the manuscript of "Cell graph neural networks enable digital staging of tumour microenvironment and precisely predict patient survival in gastric cancer".

### Abstract
Gastric cancer is one of the deadliest cancers worldwide. Accurate prognosis is essential for effective clinical assessment and treatment. Spatial patterns in the tumor microenvironment (TME) are conceptually indicative of the staging and progression of gastric cancer patients. Using spatial patterns of the TME by integrating and transforming the multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC) images as Cell-Graphs, we propose a novel graph neural network-based approach, termed **Cell-Graph Signature** or **CG<sub>Signature</sub>**, powered by artificial intelligence, for digital staging of TME and precise prediction of patient survival in gastric cancer. In this study, patient survival prediction is formulated as either a binary (**short-term** and **long-term**) or ternary (**short-term**, **medium-term**, and **long-term**) classification task. Extensive benchmarking experiments demonstrate that the CG<sub>Signature</sub> achieves outstanding model performance, with Area Under the Receiver-Operating Characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.960 &pm; 0.01, and 0.771 &pm; 0.024 to 0.904 &pm; 0.012 for the binary- and ternary-classification, respectively. Moreover, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis indicates that the 'digital-grade' cancer staging produced by CG<sub>Signature</sub> provides a remarkable capability in discriminating both binary and ternary classes with statistical significance (<em>P-value</em> < 0.0001), significantly outperforming the AJCC 8th edition Tumor-Node-Metastasis staging system. Using mIHC-based Cell-Graphs, our method improves the assessment of the link between the TME spatial patterns and patient prognosis. Our study suggests the feasibility and benefits of such artificial intelligence-powered digital staging system in diagnostic pathology and precision oncology.


